# https://www.simplethread.com/20-things-ive-learned-in-my-20-years-as-a-software-engineer/

1. 'How can you not know what FOO is?' -> There is too much to learn, don't worry about what you don't know.
2. The hardest part is building the right thing. Technically advanced and clean code doesn't matter if noone is using the product.
3. The best software engineers think like designers. Keeping the user's need in mind is the heart of good UX.
4. The best code is no code, or code you don't have to maintain.
5. Software is a means to an end.
6. Sometimes you have to stop sharpening the saw, and just start cutting shit.
7. If you don't have a good grasp of the universe of what's possible, you can't design a good system. Be wary of people who haven't written any code in a long time designing systems.
8. Every system eventually sucks, get over it. You will never get a perfect system, strive for continuous improvement.
9. Nobody asks 'why' enough. Question assumptions. Take note of what new team members are confused about.
10. We should be far more focused on avoiding 0.1x programmers than finding 10x ones.
11. One of the big differences between a senior engineer and a junior angineer is that they've formed opinions about the way things should be.
12. People don't really want innovation; they want cheap wins and novelty. True innovation will make people do things in new ways.
13. Your data is the most important part of your system. The data will likely outlive your code base, spend energy keeping it orderly and clean.
14. Look for technological sharks. RDBMs et. al. are sharks, honed to perfection by evolution. Don't treat them as old and busted just because they are old.
15. Don't mistake humility for ignorance. Never assume that just because someone doesn't throw their opinion in your face, they have nothing to contribute. Seek their opinon/advice.
16. Software engineers should write regularly. Writing means you will have to think about things clearly. Writing skills are to be honed!
17. Keep your processes as lean as possible. Don't "add more process" unless you need it. https://www.simplethread.com/agile-at-20-the-failed-rebellion/
18. Software engineers, like all humans, need to feel ownership.
19. Interviews are almost worthless for telling how good of a team member someone will be.
20. Always strive to build smaller systems.
