Age quod agis

Jesuit

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M3thQkfn7jc

Ignatius of Loyola
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ignatius_of_Loyola

    Born Inigo Lopez de Loyola in 1491, the man known as Ignatius of Loyola entered the world in Loiola, Spain. At the time, the name of the village was spelled "Loyola," hence the discrepancy. Inigo came of age in Azpeitia, in northern Spain. Loyola is a small village at the southern end of Azpeitia.

    Inigio was the youngest of thirteen children. His mother died when he was just seven, and he was then raised by Maria de Garin, who was the wife of a blacksmith. His last name, "Loyola" was taken from the village of his birth.

    Despite the misfortune of losing his mother he was still a member of the local aristocracy and was raised accordingly. Inigio was an ambitious young man who had dreams of becoming a great leader. He was influenced by stories such as The Song of Roland and El Cid.

    At the age of sixteen, he began a short period of employment working for Juan Velazquez, the treasurer of Castile. By the time he was eighteen, he became a soldier and would fight for Antonio Manrique de Lara, Duke of Nájera and Viceroy of Navarre.

    Seeking wider acclaim, he began referring to himself as Ignatius. Ignatius was a variant of Inigio. The young Ignatius also gained a reputation as a duelist. According to one story, he killed a Moor with whom he argued about the divinity of Jesus.

    Ignatius fought in several battles under the leadership of the Duke of Najera. He had a talent for emerging unscathed, despite participating in many battles. His talent earned him promotions and soon he commanded his own troops.

    In 1521, while defending the town of Pamplona against French attack, Ignatius was struck by a cannonball in the legs. One leg was merely broken, but the other was badly mangled. To save his life and possibly his legs, doctors performed several surgeries. There were no anesthetics during this time, so each surgery was painful. Despite their best efforts, Ignatius' condition deteriorated. After suffering for a month, his doctors warned him to prepare for death.

    On June 29, 1521, on the feast of Saints Peter and Paul, Ignatius began to improve. As soon as he was healthy enough to bear it, part of one leg was amputated which while painful, sped his recovery.

    During this time of bodily improvement, Ignatius began to read whatever books he could find. Most of the books he obtained were about the lives of the saints and Christ. These stories had a profound impact on him, and he became more devout.

Whatever you are doing, give it your full attention.

Sweeping the floors
Talking to someone


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T8cboOd17lE

    Jesuit Priest:

        - Invented the trap door, worked in theatres
        - Discovered Quinine (Jesuit bark)
        - Developed early native american dictionaries
        - Located the source of the blue nile
        - Educated Descartes etc
        - Championed Baroque style of Architecture
        - 35 craters on moon named after Jesuits
        - Founded the city of Sao Paulo, Brazil
        - Inspired the 1954 film, on the water front
        - 50 saints, and dozens of blessed

    The Society of Jesus (Latin: Societas Iesu; abbreviated SJ), also known as the Jesuits (/ˈdʒɛzjuɪts/; Latin: Iesuitæ),[3] is a religious order of the Catholic Church headquartered in Rome. 


https://www.diffen.com/difference/Catholic_vs_Protestant

    Use of statues and pictures:
        C: Permitted as means of inspiration
        P: Not used
    Place of origin:
        C: Palestine & Rome; Roman Empire
        P: Palestine & Rome, with a schism originating in Germany
    Founder:
        C: Jesus Christ, followed by Peter as the first Pope, then all Popes following Peter.
        P: Jesus Christ, followed by Peter, Paul, and other disciples of Jesus. Position of The Pope denied, and eventually split off of The Catholic church to attempt to re-establish the original church.
    Literal Meaning:
        C: catholic - from the Greek adjective καθολικός (katholikos), meaning "universal"
        P: Protestant - to 'protest'
    Clergy:
        C: The Pope, followed by Cardinals, Archbishops, Bishops, and Priests, Monks and Deacons. Women can be nuns.
        P: Each church independent, headed by Pastors, Elders, and Deacons.
    Practices:
        C: All Catholics are expected to participate in the liturgical life of the Church, but personal prayer and devotions are entirely a matter of personal preference.
        P: Regularly study the Bible, pray, and commune with other believers on Sunday (or other day of worship)
    Authority of Pope:
        C: Affirmed.
        P: Denied.
    About:
        C: Catholics follow the teachings of Jesus Christ as transmitted through the Old & New Testament via Rome and the Vatican and follow the Catechism. Catholics believe that the Catholic Church is the original and first Christian Church.
        P: Protestants follow the teachings of Jesus Christ as transmitted through the Old & New Testament. Protestants believe that the Catholic Church stemmed from the original Christian Church, but became corrupt. Men can not add or take away from scripture.
    Day of worship:
        C: Sunday. Personal Sacrifice during Lent.
        P: Traditionally Sunday, but other days accepted if treated with same level of focus on worship.
    Life after death:
        C: Eternal Salvation in Heaven; Eternal Damnation in Hell; Temporal third state before Heaven, known as Purgatory.
        P: There is no purgatory. Those that trust in Jesus as savior go to paradise, those that trust in their own works for salvation go to hell. In the end times, these groups are let into heaven and the lake of fire, respectively.
    Marriage:
        C: The Holy union of a man and woman. What God has bound together, no person can separate.
        P: The Holy union of a man and woman. What God has bound together, no person can separate. Divorce permitted in cases of adultery or abandonment.
    Status of women:
        C: Variable but treated with respect. Women are not allowed to be priests. However, they can become nuns.  
        P: Variable but treated with respect. Usually, women are not allowed to be part of the clergy, but are permitted to teach or work in other areas.
    Geographical predominance:
        C: Italy, Philippines, Latin America, France, Spain, Mexico, Poland, Ireland.
        P: North America and Europe.
    Time of origin:
        C: c. 315AD
        P: c. 33 AD, but believe it eventually became corrupt. Split off in an attempt to return to church's origins approx. 1517 - 1534 A.D.
    Prophet:
        C: Believe in all prophets of the Books from the Holy Bible.
        P: Believe in all prophets of the Books from the Holy Bible, and that Muhammad is a false prophet.
    Confessing sins:
        C: To God through priests.
        P: To God through Jesus.
    View of other Abrahamic religions:
        C: According to Catholic doctrine, Catholicism is the original Christian Church. Christianity is the true religion. Judaism is a true religion, but they do not believe Jesus is the Messiah. Islam is a false religion, pagan religions are also false.
        P: Judaism is a true religion, but they do not believe Jesus is the Messiah. Islam is a false religion. Pagan religions are also false.
    Mary:
        C: Mary is considered favored among women, and was chosen by God to be the mother of Jesus through a virgin birth. Thus, she is considered holy, and may be prayed to as an intercessor to God.
        P: Mary is considered favored among women, and was chosen by God to be the mother of Jesus through a virgin birth, but is otherwise simply a human with no other special attributes.
    Purgatory:
        C: A place of cleansing and preparation for heaven. Also a place where the punishment due to unremitted venial sins may be expiated.
        P: Does not exist
    Human Nature:
        C: Humans are free to devote themselves to knowledge and communion in the image of God. "original sin" inherited from Adam - tendency towards evil (Infants must be baptized)
        P: "original sin" inherited from Adam, tendency towards evil, but the sins of the father do not pass through the son, therefore Children are holy, and until they reach the age where they can know good from evil, their sins are not held against them.
    Original Language(s):
        C: Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and Latin
        P: Hebrew, Greek, and German
    Means of salvation:
        C: Received at baptism; may be lost by mortal sin; regained by faith and penance. You must believe Jesus is the only son of God, confess your sins, must have a relationship with Jesus.
        P: Faith in Jesus Christ as having already paid the penalty for your sins.
    Holy days:
        C: Christmas, Lent, Easter, Pentecost, Saints' Feast Days.
        P: Christmas and Easter.
    Population:
        C: 1.2 billion
        P: 590 million
    God's role in salvation:
        C: Christ can save people and can help in salvation.
        P: Various forms of grace and free will. In one extreme, God predestines who will be saved and there is no free will. In the other extreme it is entirely the free will of man. Most protestants are somewhere in between.
    Type of Worship:
        C: Prayer, Praise, Singing, Scripture Reading, and Adoring Eucharist.
        P: Prayer, Praise, Singing, Scripture Reading, and Teaching of the Reading.
    Geographical distribution and predominance:
        C: France, Italy, Spain, Latin America, USA.
        P: North America, Europe.
    Praying to Saints, Mary, and Angel:
        C: Only for their intercession or help, at end of each prayer you must say "but only God's will be done".  Saints are anyone that believes, and Mary is only a human.
        P: The only intercessor between God and man is Jesus, not saints, Mary, or angels.
    Significance of Eucharist / Communion:
        C: Commonly termed the 'Mystic Supper' or 'Divine Liturgy' - This makes present Christ's sacrifice and therefore forgiveness of sins is obtained through it. It is also an encounter with the Risen Christ.
        P: Important as a symbolic remembrance of Christ's death.
    Saints:
        C: A special group of holy people, who are venerated. They may act as intercessors between God and Man and may be invoked in prayer.
        P: Anyone who believes in Jesus as savior is a saint.
    Goal of religion:
        C: Peace, Love and willful submission to God.
        P: A relationship with Jesus.
    Offshoot religions:
        C: Eastern Orthodox and Protestant sects of Christianity.
        P: Thousands of denominations.
    Legislation:
        C: Prerogative of the Church, which follows the Holy Spirit and the Word of God as best it can.
        P: The Bible alone.
    Religious Law:
        C: The Bible and Catechisms, which may be added to or amended by The Pope.
        P: The Bible alone. Each person must verify all teachings through the Bible.
    Presence of Christ in Eucharist / Communion:
        C: During the Eucharist, the Priest calls down the Holy Spirit upon the gifts (the bread and the wine). They then change into the actual body and blood of Christ. The precise way in which this happens is a divine mystery.
        P: Christ is present in spirit, but the bread and wine are merely symbolic of his death, and of the believer's commitment to him.
    Views on other religions:
        C: The Catholic Church is the only true religion. All others are false.
        P: Believing that Jesus Christ died for your sins, and that by believing in him you are saved by faith, not works, is the core principal. Any religion confirming this is a true religion; any religion denying it is a false religion.


"Apostolic Lineage" / "Apostolic Succession"

https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Luthers_lilla_katekes

    